Israel's prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu says he is willing to send a
delegation to discuss the latest
ceasefire proposals over the war in Gaza
Hamas leaders tonight said they accept
the plans brokered by Egypt and katar
which is believed could involve the
exchange of Palestinian prisoners for 33
Israeli hostages held since the October
the 7th attacks a ceasefire would be
welcome resite for many tens of
thousands of Palestinians Sheltering in
southern Gaza and would be the first
pause in the seven-month War since a
week-long truce back in November but
Israel has been making plans for a
full-scale attack on the southern city
of Rafa and tonight continued to bomb
the area a 100,000 refugees have been
told to move to what Israel is calling
an expanded humanitarian Zone near Khan
Yunis but gazans say the area is already
overcrowded fergal Keen has more
details they haven't had reason to dance
for a long time
[Applause]
but they haven't forgotten
how even amid uncertainty about Israel's
position Hope
Springs across Gaza BBC journalists
captured the
reaction of those convinced perhaps
prematurely that a ceasefire will
happen the feeling is Indescribable
we're so happy we're going back to our
home in Gaza
City we are refugees from the north and
we fled here this young man says we're
so happy there's a
ceasefire Israelis are still absorbing
the news it came late on one of this
society's most important days when
across the country Sirens bring the
nation to a halt in memory of the dead
of the Holocaust a day of reflection in
a country traumatized by the Hamas
attack last
October tonight on the streets of Tel
Aviv those who believe healing that
trauma can begin with a ceasefire deal
and the release of Israel's
hostages we expect from the Israeli
government to take this de to save all
the remaining hostages who are still
alive but after 7 months of a war in
which Israel's Army pledged to destroy
Hamas a ceasefire deal that fails to
accomplish that risks breaking Israel's
wartime coalition
government Israel will send negotiators
to talks but won't stop fighting
yet we examine every proposal very
seriously and we review every
possibility on the issue of negotiations
and the return of the hostages to their
homes as quickly as possible and as a
central task
at the same time we carry on with our
operations in the Gaza Strip and will
continue to do so this morning the
people of Eastern Rafa woke to leaflets
telling them to
evacuate many have been displaced before
but still they were told to
leave everyone no matter how
old how
young or how vulnerable
to al- mawasi Israel says and other
desolate places Beyond
Rafa the so-called humanitarian zones
were to be
expanded but they've never been safe
from
sickness hunger or
[Music]
War this is the aftermath of raids on
Rafa last
night people hope these may have been
some of the last air strikes if the
ceasefire can be made to
work news of the Hamas announcement was
still hours
away nin Raja mother and
Refugee for 7 months this has been the
daily reality
hany ashtar an orphan grieved by his
relative
ree his family was killed during the war
she says even he was
killed so many here are grieving and
exhausted late tonight Israel attacked
Eastern Rafa where they told people to
leave celebration had turned to
fear and the hope that tomorrow might
bring peace Ferg Keen BBC News
Jerusalem let's get the very latest now
from Frank Garden who's live in
Jerusalem and Gary odonahue who's in New
York Frank first to you um as we speak
Israel still hasn't signed on to this
deal no they haven't but they have at
least agreed to to do what they didn't
do at the weekend which is to send a
delegation of mediators experts in their
view to try and trash out a deal they've
said that the terms that Hamas have
agreed to are very far from what is that
meets their needs but they're not ruling
it out so I think there is a degree of
optimism here but at the same time as I
mentioned they are continuing their push
their military push against the wishes
of the Americans in Rafa and that is
controversial because all the aid
agencies are saying this could be a
catastrophic result for the civilians
there and essentially I think if if you
had to sum up the Israeli position it
would be keep talking but keep fighting
all right Frank thank you uh to you Gary
at the White House um Joe Biden his team
they're very anxious um over Israel's
planned attack on Rafa they don't want
it to go ahead but Israel it's clear
tonight is still planning to push
on yeah the administration here
believing we're at a really critical
stage uh in this whole process they are
saying that they're looking at the the
details of the deal that Hamas have said
they'll accept uh talking to their
Partners in the region uh and also of
course the CIA director Bill Burns is
shuttling between Qatar and KIRO trying
to work out what to do next now they're
saying that they're going to look at
that in great detail one thing they're
being very clear on is the question of
Rafa they say they've seen no credible
plan uh of how to protect
humanitarian uh needs in Rafa if there
were any kind of uh incursion there
they've been opposed to that all along
and I think one thing today from the
National Security Council spokesman
Clive John Kirby summed it out he said I
don't think there has been a more
sensitive stage than right now